Move the building workflows page to the vector search section and add tutorial (#9379)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _vector-search/tutorials/ai-search-flows/building-flows.md

![index-settings-updated]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/flow-tutorial/index-settings-updated.png)

After configuring, select **Build and run ingestion** to create the index, configure the ingest pipeline, and bulk ingest sample data. The **Inspector** panel displays the OpenSearch response and any errors that may occur, as shown in the following image.

![build-and-run-ingestion-response]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/flow-tutorial/build-and-run-ingestion-response.png)

Now that you've completed the ingest flow, proceed to configuring search by selecting **Search pipeline >**.

## Step 6: Configure a query

Under **Edit query**, enter your query or select from preset query options. Note: The index is already set to the one you've configured in the ingest flow. If you haven't configured the ingest flow, select your vector index from the dropdown menu.  

For semantic search, enter the following query in the **Query** field:

```json
{
    "query": {
        "term": {
            "item_text": {
                "value": "shoes"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

> The query is shown in the following image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query is shown in the following image.
```

![edit-query-term]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/flow-tutorial/edit-query-term.png)

## Step 7: Enrich the query

> You can enrich the query by configuring a series of processors - in this case, [search request processors]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/search-processors/#search-request-processors). Currently, only the [ML inference processor]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/ml-inference-search-request/) is supported. For this example, you'll configure an ML inference processor using the same Amazon Titan Text Embeddings model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can enrich the query by configuring a series of processors---in this case, [search request processors]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/search-processors/#search-request-processors). Currently, only the [ML inference processor]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/ml-inference-search-request/) is supported. For this example, you'll configure an ML inference processor using the same Amazon Titan Text Embeddings model. 
```

Next, update the query to use the generated vector embeddings by selecting **Override query**. Then select **Choose from a preset** and choose `knn` query, as shown in the following image.

![override-query-with-placeholders]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/flow-tutorial/override-query-with-placeholders.png)

Replace any placeholder values, such as `${vector_field}`, with the corresponding vector field in your index. In this case, use the `my_embedding` field, which was configured during ingestion.

To reference the vector generated by the model, check the **Model outputs** section, where you'll find a list of available outputs. Use the copy button on the right to copy a template variable and paste it into your query.

In this example, the `${vector}` placeholder has already been set as the **vector** value in the k-NN query, so no further changes are needed. The final query should contain no placeholders except for dynamic model output variables, which will be populated at runtime, as shown in the following image.

![override-query]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/flow-tutorial/override-query.png)

> ## Step 8: Enrich query results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 8: Enrich the query results
```

You can configure a series of [search response processors]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/search-pipelines/search-processors/#search-response-processors) to enrich or transform the returned matching documents. In this example, you won't transform the output data. For example transformations, see [configuration examples](#implementation-examples).

## Step 9: Run a search

You have now configured the flow. Select **Build and run query** to build the search pipeline and run the search request against the index. The **Inspector** panel displays the OpenSearch response, as shown in the following image.

![search-response]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/flow-tutorial/search-response.png)

> ## Step 10: Export workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 10: Export the workflow
```

When you are satisfied with your workflow results, select **Export** to export the [workflow template]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/automating-configurations/workflow-templates/). The template contains the configuration details for your index, ingest pipeline, and search pipeline. The template also contains OpenSearch Dashboards metadata. You can copy the template in JSON or YAML format, as shown in the following image.

![export-modal]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/flow-tutorial/export-modal.png)

If you're importing the template into a different cluster, update any cluster-specific IDs, such as model IDs.
{: .note}

> You have now implemented semantic search using OpenSearch Flow, with all of the required resources bundled up into a single template. You can import this template on the UI and rebuild for different clusters, or run the template directly using the [Flow Framework Provision API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/automating-configurations/api/provision-workflow/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have now implemented semantic search using OpenSearch Flow, with all of the required resources bundled into a single template. You can import this template into the UI and rebuild it for different clusters or run the template directly using the [Flow Framework Provision API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/automating-configurations/api/provision-workflow/).
```

The following sections contain additional OpenSearch Flow configuration examples.

<p id="implementation-examples"></p>

## Semantic search

> This example demonstrates configuring semantic search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to configure semantic search.
```

### ML resources

Create and deploy an [Amazon Titan Text Embeddings model on Amazon Bedrock](https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-flow-framework/blob/main/documentation/models.md#amazon-bedrock-titan-text-embedding).

### Index

> Ensure the index settings include `index.knn: true` and your index contains a `knn_vector` field specified in the mappings as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the index settings include `index.knn: true` and that your index contains a `knn_vector` field specified in the mappings, as follows:
```

```json
{
    "settings": {
        "index": {
            "knn": true
        }
    },
    "mappings": {
        "properties": {
            "<embedding_field_name>": {
                "type": "knn_vector",
                "dimension": "<embedding_size>"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

### Ingest pipeline

> Configure a single ML inference processor. Map your input text to the `inputText` model input field. Optionally,, map the output `embedding` to a new document field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure a single ML inference processor. Map your input text to the `inputText` model input field. Optionally, map the output `embedding` to a new document field.
```

### Search pipeline

Configure a single ML inference search request processor. Map the query field containing the input text to the `inputText` model input field. Optionally, map the output `embedding` to a new field. Override the query to include a `knn` query, for example:

```json
{
    "_source": {
        "excludes": [
            "<embedding_field>"
        ]
    },
    "query": {
        "knn": {
            "<embedding_field>": {
                "vector": ${embedding},
                "k": 10
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

---

## Hybrid search 

> Hybrid search combines keyword and vector search. This example demonstrates configuring hybrid search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hybrid search combines keyword and vector search. This example demonstrates how to configure hybrid search.
```

### ML resources

Create and deploy an [Amazon Titan Text Embeddings model on Amazon Bedrock](https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-flow-framework/blob/main/documentation/models.md#amazon-bedrock-titan-text-embedding).

### Index

> Ensure the index settings include `index.knn: true` and your index contains a `knn_vector` field specified in the mappings as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the index settings include `index.knn: true` and that your index contains a `knn_vector` field specified in the mappings, as follows:
```

```json
{
    "settings": {
        "index": {
            "knn": true
        }
    },
    "mappings": {
        "properties": {
            "<embedding_field_name>": {
                "type": "knn_vector",
                "dimension": "<embedding_size>"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

### Ingest pipeline

Configure a single ML inference processor. Map your input text to the `inputText` model input field. Optionally, map the output `embedding` to a new document field.

### Search pipeline

Configure an ML inference search request processor and a normalization processor.

> **For the ML inference processor**, map the query field containing the input text to the `inputText` model input field. Optionally, map the output `embedding` to a new field. Override the query to contain a `hybrid` query. Ensure to specify the `embedding_field`, `text_field`, and `text_field_input`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**For the ML inference processor**, map the query field containing the input text to the `inputText` model input field. Optionally, map the output `embedding` to a new field. Override the query so that it contains a `hybrid` query. Make sure to specify the `embedding_field`, `text_field`, and `text_field_input`:
```

```json
{
    "_source": {
        "excludes": [
            "<embedding_field>"
        ]
    },
    "query": {
        "hybrid": {
            "queries": [
                {
                    "match": {
                        "<text_field>": {
                            "query": "<text_field_input>"
                        }
                    }
                },
                {
                    "knn": {
                        "<embedding_field>": {
                            "vector": ${embedding},
                            "k": 10
                        }
                    }
                }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

**For the normalization processor**, configure weights for each subquery. For more information, see the [hybrid search normalization processor example]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/search-plugins/hybrid-search/#step-4-configure-a-search-pipeline).

---

## Basic RAG (document summarization)

> This example demonstrates configuring basic retrieval-augmented generation (RAG).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to configure basic retrieval-augmented generation (RAG).
```

> Because the connector blueprint and model interface may evolve, the following example demonstrates a connector blueprint that simplifies interaction with the [Claude v1 messages API](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/api/getting-started#examples). This blueprint abstracts much of the complexity, exposing only a single `prompt` field as input to the model.  

Reviewer: In the first sentence, the second phrase doesn't logically follow the first (the example doesn't demonstrate a connector blueprint because it and the model interface may evolve). Please separate into two sentences.

> A sample input might look like this, with placeholders representing dynamically fetched results:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A sample input might appear as follows, with placeholders representing dynamically fetched results:  
```

> Because the connector blueprint and model interface may evolve, the following example demonstrates a connector blueprint that simplifies interaction with the [Claude v1 messages API](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/api/getting-started#examples). This blueprint abstracts much of the complexity, exposing only a single `prompt` field as input to the model.  

Author: ```suggestion
The following example shows a simplified connector blueprint for the [Claude v1 messages API](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/api/getting-started#examples). While connector blueprints and model interfaces may evolve over time, this example demonstrates how to abstract complex API interactions into a single `prompt` field input.  
```

}
```

### ML resources

Create and deploy an [Anthropic Claude 3 Sonnet model on Amazon Bedrock](https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-flow-framework/blob/main/documentation/models.md#claude-3-sonnet-hosted-on-amazon-bedrock).

### Search pipeline

Configure an ML inference search response processor using the following steps:  

1. Select **Template** as the transformation type for the `prompt` input field.  
2. Open the template configuration by selecting **Configure**.  
3. Choose a preset template to simplify setup.  
4. Create an input variable that extracts the list of reviews (for example, `review`).  
5. Inject the variable into the prompt by copying and pasting it into the template.  
6. Select **Run preview** to verify that the transformed prompt correctly incorporates sample dynamic data.  
7. Select **Save** to apply the changes and exit.

---

## 4. Multimodal search 

> Multimodal search searches by text and image. This example demonstrates configuring multimodal search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multimodal search searches by text and image. This example demonstrates how to configure multimodal search.
```

### ML resources

Create and deploy an [Amazon Titan Multimodal Embeddings model on Amazon Bedrock](https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-flow-framework/blob/main/documentation/models.md#amazon-bedrock-titan-multimodal-embedding).

### Index

> Ensure the index settings include `index.knn: true` and your index contains a `knn_vector` field (to persist generated embeddings) and a `binary` field (to persist the image binary) specified in the mappings as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the index settings include `index.knn: true` and that your index contains a `knn_vector` field (to persist generated embeddings) and a `binary` field (to persist the image binary) specified in the mappings, as follows:
```

```json
{
    "settings": {
        "index": {
            "knn": true
        }
    },
    "mappings": {
        "properties": {
            "image_base64": {
                "type": "binary"
            },
            "image_embedding": {
                "type": "knn_vector",
                "dimension": <dimension>
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

### Ingest pipeline

> Configure a single ML inference processor. Map your input text field and input image field to the `inputText` and `inputImage` model input fields, respectively. If both text and image inputs are needed, ensure both are mapped. Alternatively, you can map only one input (either text or image) if a single input suffices for embedding generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure a single ML inference processor. Map your input text field and input image field to the `inputText` and `inputImage` model input fields, respectively. If both text and image inputs are needed, ensure that both are mapped. Alternatively, you can map only one input (either text or image) if a single input is sufficient for embedding generation.
```

Optionally, map the output `embedding` to a new document field.

### Search pipeline

> Configure a single ML inference search request processor. Map the input text field and input image field in the query to the `inputText`and `inputImage` model input fields, respectively. If both text and image inputs are needed, ensure both are mapped. Alternatively, you can map only one input (either text or image) if a single input suffices for embedding generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure a single ML inference search request processor. Map the input text field and input image field in the query to the `inputText` and `inputImage` model input fields, respectively. If both text and image inputs are needed, ensure that both are mapped. Alternatively, you can map only one input (either text or image) if a single input is sufficient for embedding generation.
```

> Override the query to contain a `knn` query, including the embedding output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Override the query so that it contains a `knn` query, including the embedding output:
```

```json
{
    "_source": {
        "excludes": [
            "<embedding_field>"
        ]
    },
    "query": {
        "knn": {
            "<embedding_field>": {
                "vector": ${embedding},
                "k": 10
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

---

## Named entity recognition 

> This example demonstrates configuring Named entity recognition (NER).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates how to configure named entity recognition (NER).
```

### ML resources

Create and deploy an [Amazon Comprehend Entity Detection model](https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-flow-framework/blob/main/documentation/models.md#amazon-comprehend---entity-detection).

### Ingest pipeline

Configure a single ML inference processor. Map your input text field to the `text` model input fields. To persist any identified entities with each document, transform the output (an array of entities) and store them in the `entities_found` field. Use the following `output_map` configuration as a reference:

```json
"output_map": [
    {
        "entities_found": "$.response.Entities[*].Type"
    }
],
```
{% include copy.html %}

> This configuration maps the extracted entities to the `entities_found` field, ensuring they are stored alongside each document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration maps the extracted entities to the `entities_found` field, ensuring that they are stored alongside each document.
```

---

## Language detection and classification

> The following example demonstrates configuring language detection and classification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to configure language detection and classification.
```

### ML resources

Create and deploy an [Amazon Comprehend Language Detection model](https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-flow-framework/blob/main/documentation/models.md#amazon-comprehend---language-detection).

### Ingest pipeline

> Configure a single ML inference processor. Map your input text field to the `text` model input fields. To store the most relevant or most likely language detected for each document, transform the output (an array of languages) and persist it under the `detected_dominant_language` field. Use the following `output_map` configuration as a reference:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure a single ML inference processor. Map your input text field to the `text` model input fields. To store the most relevant or most likely language detected for each document, transform the output (an array of languages) and persist it in the `detected_dominant_language` field. Use the following `output_map` configuration as a reference:
```

```json
"output_map": [
    {
              "detected_dominant_language": "response.Languages[0].LanguageCode"
    }
],
```
{% include copy.html %}

---

## Reranking results

> Reranking can be implemented in various ways, depending on model capabilities. Typically, models require at least two inputs: the original query and the data to be assigned a relevance score. Some models support batching, allowing multiple results to be processed in a single inference call, while others require scoring each result individually.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reranking can be implemented in various ways, depending on the capabilities of the model used. Typically, models require at least two inputs: the original query and the data to be assigned a relevance score. Some models support batching, allowing multiple results to be processed in a single inference call, while others require scoring each result individually.  
```

In OpenSearch, this leads to two common reranking patterns:  

1. **Batching enabled**  

>    - Collect all search results.  

Reviewer: Because these are ordered, should they perhaps be lettered instead of bulleted?

>    - Collect all search results.  

Author: ```suggestion
   1. Collect all search results.  
```

>    - Pass the batched results to a single ML processor for scoring.  

Author: ```suggestion
   1. Pass the batched results to a single ML processor for scoring.  
```

>    - Return the top **n** ranked results.  

Author: ```suggestion
   1. Return the top **n** ranked results.  
```

2. **Batching disabled**  

>    - Collect all search results.  

Author: ```suggestion
   1. Collect all search results.  
```

>    - For each result, pass it to the ML processor to assign a new relevance score.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Pass each result to the ML processor to assign a new relevance score.  
```

>    - Send all results with updated scores to the rerank processor for sorting.  

Author: ```suggestion
   1. Send all results with updated scores to the rerank processor for sorting.  
```

   - Return the top **n** ranked results.  

> The following example demonstrates **Pattern 2 (batching disabled)** to highlight the rerank processor. However, note that the **Cohere Rerank** model used in this example **does support batching**, so you could also implement **Pattern 1** with this model if desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates **Pattern 2 (batching disabled)** to highlight the rerank processor. However, note that the **Cohere Rerank** model used in this example **does support batching**, so you could also implement **Pattern 1** with this model.
```

### ML resources

Create and deploy a [Cohere Rerank model](https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-flow-framework/blob/main/documentation/models.md#cohere-rerank).

### Search pipeline

> Configure an ML inference **search response** processor, followed by a rerank **search response** processor. To follow reranking with batching disabled, use the ML processor to generate new relevance scores for the retrieved results and then apply the reranker to sort them accordingly.  

Reviewer: In the second sentence, "follow" reads as the wrong verb.

> Configure an ML inference **search response** processor, followed by a rerank **search response** processor. To follow reranking with batching disabled, use the ML processor to generate new relevance scores for the retrieved results and then apply the reranker to sort them accordingly.  

Author: ```suggestion
Configure an ML inference **search response** processor, followed by a rerank **search response** processor. For reranking with batching disabled, use the ML processor to generate new relevance scores for the retrieved results and then apply the reranker to sort them accordingly.  
```

Use the following ML processor configuration:  

1. Map the document field containing the data to be used for comparison to the model's `documents` field.  
2. Map the original query to the model's `query` field.  
3. Use JSONPath to access the query JSON, prefixed with `_request.query`. 

Use the following `input_map` configuration as a reference:

```json
"input_map": [
   {
      "documents": "description",
      "query": "$._request.query.term.value"
   }
],
```
{% include copy.html %}

> Optionally, you can store the rescored result in the model output under a new field. You may also extract and persist only the relevance score if needed as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, you can store the rescored result in the model output in a new field. You can also extract and persist only the relevance score, as follows:
```

```json
"input_map": [
   {
      "new_score": "results[0].relevance_score"
   }
],
```
{% include copy.html %}

Use the following rerank processor configuration: Under **target_field**, select the model score field (in this example, `new_score`).

---

## Multimodal search (text or image) with a custom CLIP model

> The following example uses a custom CLIP model hosted on Amazon SageMaker. The model dynamically takes in a text or image URL as input and returns a vector embedding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses a custom CLIP model hosted on Amazon SageMaker. The model dynamically ingests a text or image URL as input and returns a vector embedding.
```

### ML resources

Create and deploy a [Custom CLIP Multimodal model](https://github.com/opensearch-project/dashboards-flow-framework/blob/main/documentation/models.md#custom-clip-multimodal-embedding).

### Index

> Ensure the index settings include `index.knn: true` and your index contains a `knn_vector` field specified in the mappings as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the index settings include `index.knn: true` and that your index contains a `knn_vector` field specified in the mappings, as follows:
```

```json
{
    "settings": {
        "index": {
            "knn": true
        }
    },
    "mappings": {
        "properties": {
            "<embedding_field_name>": {
                "type": "knn_vector",
                "dimension": "<embedding_size>"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
{% include copy.html %}

### Ingest pipeline

Configure a single ML inference processor. Map your image field to the `image_url` model input field or your text field to the `text` model input field, depending on what type of data you are ingesting and persisting in your index. For example, if building an application that returns relevant images based on text or image input, you want to persist images and should map the image field to the `image_url` field.

### Search pipeline

Configure a single ML inference search request processor. Map the input image field or the input text field in the query to the `image_url` or `text` model input fields, respectively. The CLIP model flexibly handles one or the other, so choose the option that best suits your use case.

> Override the query to contain a `knn` query, including the embedding output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Override the query so that it contains a `knn` query, including the embedding output:
```
